---
layout: post
Title: "Using Git 2"
update_date: 2014-09-21
comments: true
---

This post continues my [previous post]({% post_url 2014-03-30-using-git %}) about customizing git.

### Shortening Git commands

Once you start using *git* a lot, you will get tired of typing out commands like,
`git status`, `git branch`, and `git checkout` over and over again. Since *git*
is really flexible, you can change these commands to `git st`, `git br`,
`git co` respectively.


| Full command     | Short command   |
|:----------------:|:---------------:|
| `git status`     | `git st`        |
| `git branch`     | `git br`        |
| `git checkout`   | `git co`        |

You can do these via the terminal by executing these commands
```bash
git config --global alias.st status
git config --global alias.br branch
git config --global alias.co checkout
```

These commands will add or edit your `~/.gitconfig` file so that it contains
```
[alias]
	br = branch
	co = checkout
	st = status
```

Or, as before, you can edit `~/.gitconfig` to add/edit these lines.

As mentioned in my [previous post]({% post_url 2014-03-30-using-git %}), you can choose to
make these changes for only a particular repository by typing the above commands
inside a repository and replacing the `--global` option by `--local`.
Omitting the `--global` flag is equivalent to using `--local` because
`--local` is the default option.

### Setting up your default git editor
Git offers you an editor to write a commit message after a `git commit` command. I never got used to
the complexities of _vim_ as an editor, as simple as it is. Writing a commit message should be a simple
affair which can be done within in a terminal. For these reasons, I prefer _nano_ as my favorite
_in-terminal_ editor. Setting the global default editor for git can be done by this command
```
git config --global core.editor nano
```

Expectedly, by running this command, we add the following lines to the `~/.gitconfig` file
```
[core]
        editor = nano
```

This post is the part of the **Using Git** series:
1. [Using Git]({% post_url 2014-03-30-using-git %})
2. [Using Git 2]({% post_url 2014-06-16-using-git-2 %})
3. [Using Git 3]({% post_url 2015-01-04-using-git-3 %})
