---
layout: post
title: "Using Git"
date: 2014-03-30
author: "Ankur Gupta"
categories: [command line, git, Git/Hg, Tech, terminal, unix]
comments: true
---

[Git](http://git-scm.com/) is a free, open source version control system. If you're
looking to learn to use Git, you might find the [tutorial at Github](https://try.github.io)
extremely useful. Google "github git tutorial" for a horde of beautiful learning resources.
You can also go to [bitbucket](http://bitbucket.org), sign up for a free account and
practice using a git tutorial. In this post, I point out various tips/tricks I used
to make Git behave the way I want. This is nothing new, you can find this information
all over the web. I just felt like I should list all these in one place.

### Colored output from Git
This is simple. Run this command in a terminal:
```bash
git config --global color.ui auto
```

This command will add the following snippet to your `~/.gitconfig` file.
```
ui = auto
```

Or, you can manually add the above snippet to your `~/.gitconfig` file.

### Setting up different user names and emails for different repositories
Git sets up your global (system wide) user name/email in `~/.gitconfig`.
You can do this via this command.

```bash
git config --global user.email myemail@myemail.com
git config --global user.name myusername
```

This will add the following code snippet to your `~/.gitconfig` file.
```
[user]
email = myemail@myemail.com
name = myusername
```

But if you maintain different user names/emails for different repositories,
then you need to set up the user name/email for every repository independently.
You can do this by typing this command inside the repository.
```bash
git config user.email myemail@myemail.com
git config user.name myusername
```

The default option for `git config` is `--local` so you don't need to
type out `--local` specifically.

The above commands will add the same snippet as before, but this time to
your `./.git/config` file.

This post is the part of the **Using Git** series:

1. [Using Git]({% post_url 2014-03-30-using-git %})
2. [Using Git 2]({% post_url 2014-06-16-using-git-2 %})
3. [Using Git 3]({% post_url 2015-01-04-using-git-3 %})
