---
layout: post
Title: Using Git 3
date: 2015-01-04
comments: true
---

Third installment of my *Using Git* series.

See my previous posts [Using Git 2]({% post_url 2014-06-16-using-git-2 %})
and [Using Git]({% post_url 2014-03-30-using-git %}).

### Showing only files that changed in the last commit
You can always see the changes made in the last commit using
```
git show
```

But, on occasions, you just want to see the list of files changed. You can do this by simply passing the `--stat` flag:
```
git show --stat
```

### Making git ignore changes in file permissions
Sometimes you'd git to not recognize the changes in the file permissions. This can happen very frequently if you're mounting file systems across the network or a virtual machine. For a particular repository, you can _locally_ set the `fileMode` to `false` like this:
```
git config --local core.fileMode false
```
or, simply
```
git config core.fileMode false
```

The commands above will change the `./git/config` file to add/edit the following line
```
[core]
    fileMode = false
```

As always, you can use `--global` flag instead of `--local` flag to make a system wide change. The _global_ change will add/edit `~/.gitconfig` file.

### Making git ignore changes in line endings
Line ending in Windows is `\r\n`, which is the combination of _Carriage Return_ (CR) of `\r` and the _Line Feed_ (LF) `\n`. Line ending in Unix is only `\n`. See the
[Wikipedia entry on Newline](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Newline) for a better understanding.

When you edit a file on Windows or on a text editor that changes line endings, you will notice that `git diff` shows that the entire file has changed. You might see `^M` at the end of lines when you see the output of `git diff`.

When `git diff` shows that the entire file had changed, you cannot see the meaningful changes you've made. To make git ignore the line endings, you can use the `--ignore-space-at-eol` flag:
```
git diff --ignore-space-at-eol
```

This will still show the changes that don't involve the line endings.

This post is the part of the **Using Git** series:

1. [Using Git]({% post_url 2014-03-30-using-git %})
2. [Using Git 2]({% post_url 2014-06-16-using-git-2 %})
3. [Using Git 3]({% post_url 2015-01-04-using-git-3 %})
